# Metadata

title:Trust centers, what say you?

author: [github.com/aj-stein-gsa](https://github.com/aj-stein-gsa)

url: [https://github.com/FedRAMP/continuous-reporting-cwg/discussions/48](https://github.com/FedRAMP/continuous-reporting-cwg/discussions/48)

created: 2025-05-16T20:14:35Z

id: D_kwDOOKttEc4AfzTf



# Post

Has anyone in the community implemented a trust center for a cloud service provider or specific service offering? There are a few well-known vendors out there, and some custom built-ones, but they often summarize different themes at an accessible domain like `trust.example.com`. They usually include features like the list below.

- status badges that identify product(s) support for different regulatory and compliance requirements
- summaries about product(s) implementation of common security capabilities, geared towards answering third-party risk management questionnaires
- mechanisms for partial or complete access to supporting documentation for customers that need to comply with regulation and compliance frameworks
- a listing of different customers with related use cases for the product(s)
- a mechanism for subscribing to status updates to this information

If you have implemented them for providers in the past:

- What about them worked well for you?
- What about them did not work well for you?
- What data would you share with them?
- What data would you not share with them?

If you did not implement them, but consumed them as an assessor, potential customer, or other stakeholder outside a CSP:

- What about them worked well for you?
- What about them did not work well for you?
- What information did you often not receive from a trust center you felt necessary to actually make informed decisions about the product(s)?
- What information did you often receive, but providers gave to you anyway, that did not help you make informed decisions about product(s)?



# Comments


