# Metadata

title:OSCAL Foundation - Open Letter to FedRAMP

author: [github.com/canb227](https://github.com/canb227)

url: [https://github.com/FedRAMP/rev5-continuous-monitoring-cwg/discussions/35](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rev5-continuous-monitoring-cwg/discussions/35)

created: 2025-05-12T19:41:42Z

id: D_kwDOOK0ax84Aft1Z



# Post



# OSCAL Foundation - Open Letter to FedRAMP

The OSCAL Foundation is dedicated to furthering the development and adoption of Open Security Controls Assessment Language (OSCAL) standards. We aim to simplify the full lifecycle of information-system security risk-management through interoperability and automation. The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) is an invaluable partner to making the OSCAL vision a reality. 

As FedRAMP undergoes its [FedRAMP 20x](https://www.fedramp.gov/2025-03-24-FedRAMP-in-2025/) transformation, the OSCAL Foundation wants to ensure continued collaboration with FedRAMP. OSCAL was developed and launched under the Trump Administration’s leadership, and we see it as a key enabler of the Trump Administration’s vision of reforming the program. OSCAL and the OSCAL Foundation are well-aligned with the FedRAMP 20x goals of reducing unneeded paperwork and increasing automation. Consequently, we make the following recommendations regarding OSCAL and FedRAMP through the FR20x process:

1. **OSCAL supports any security requirements that can be expressed in plain language, including FedRAMP KSIs.**

   OSCAL was designed from the ground up to be framework agnostic and does not depend on NIST 800-53 or any other control catalog. Its layered architecture offers flexibility to adopt OSCAL incrementally, as needed. FedRAMP’s RFC-0006 Key Security Indicators (KSI) are easily modeled in OSCAL, making them machine-readable and automation-ready, as demonstrated in this [proof-of-concept created by  Foundation members](https://github.com/OSCAL-Foundation/OSCAL-Foundation/blob/main/content/catalog/json/FedRAMP%20RFC-0006%2020x%20Phase%20One%20Key%20Security%20Indicators.json). OSCAL’s terminology is rooted in widely adopted NIST publications, which are well known, freely available, and trusted by industry and government agencies worldwide. The OSCAL Foundation and its members would welcome the opportunity to review this proof of concept with you or to present it during a future working group meeting.

2. **Maintain Open Dialogue with Community Stakeholders.**

   A key pillar of FedRAMP20x has been FedRAMP’s commitment to community engagement. We appreciate FedRAMP’s creation of working groups to foster dialogue and gather feedback. We encourage FedRAMP to continue working closely with industry, public sector partners, and the OSCAL Foundation. Specifically, we encourage FedRAMP to be open to OSCAL as a solution to meet its objectives and provide direction if there are opportunities for the OSCAL Foundation and members of the OSCAL community to do more to demonstrate OSCAL’s potential to do so. Speaking a common “language” will enhance community cohesion. As innovation partners, we can push boundaries and drive real change.

3. **Continue to Support the OSCAL Technical Ecosystem.**

   Beyond engagement, FedRAMP should continue to foster support for the OSCAL ecosystem. We recommend the PMO publish all FedRAMP artifacts, particularly profiles (i.e., Low, Moderate, High) in OSCAL by default to enable agencies and Cloud Service Providers (CSPs) to directly integrate machine‑readable controls into their tooling. Accepting OSCAL‑formatted artifacts, FedRAMP will reduce manual data entry, minimize errors, and accelerate review cycles, expediting FedRAMP’s transformation and reduced staffing levels.

4. **Leverage OSCAL as a Foundation for FedRAMP 20x.**

   OSCAL makes possible the secure, automated interchange of security information between stakeholders, regardless of tech stack, vendor, compliance regime, or enterprise boundaries. OSCAL is ready now to serve as a key enabler for FedRAMP’s modernization efforts. We encourage FedRAMP to leverage OSCAL in its automation initiatives, including continuous monitoring and reporting. 

FedRAMP's use of OSCAL reduces fraud, waste, and abuse by automating cloud service assessment and monitoring. It ensures interoperability, data portability, and boosts efficiency by minimizing human errors and tasks. This standard supports innovation and competitiveness at a low cost through enabling new use-cases such as AI integration in the adjudication process.

We are excited to see the progress that the FedRAMP20x initiative has made so far. The OSCAL Foundation remains committed to advancing OSCAL standards in furtherance of a simpler and more efficient IT security environment. We look forward to deepening our partnership with FedRAMP and to a future of automated, continuous security!

Thank you for the time.
John Banghart, Executive Coordinator, OSCAL Foundation, jbanghart@oscalfoundation.org


[OSCAL Foundation Website](https://oscalfoundation.org/)

# Comments




## Comment 1

author: [github.com/pjavan](https://github.com/pjavan)

url: [https://github.com/FedRAMP/rev5-continuous-monitoring-cwg/discussions/35#discussioncomment-13194000](https://github.com/FedRAMP/rev5-continuous-monitoring-cwg/discussions/35#discussioncomment-13194000)

created: 2025-05-19T13:20:37Z

id: DC_kwDOOK0ax84AyVMQ

Thanks, John, for this thoughtful and forward-looking post. I fully support OSCAL’s role in helping FedRAMP achieve the goals of its 20x transformation; especially around automation, interoperability, and reducing manual burden. 

OSCAL’s flexible, framework-agnostic approach is precisely designed to address key goals of FedRAMP 20x. While simplicity is important, effective automation depends on structured granularity: a core strength OSCAL brings.

### Replies

